SE 461 - Software Testing and Quality
Instructor: Yongjie Zheng (Email: yzheng@csusm.edu)
Lecture Time: Monday/Wednesday/Friday 9:30AM - 10:20AM
Lecture Room: Kellogg Library 1104
Office Hour: Monday and Thursday 1PM - 2PM
Office Hour Zoom (with Waiting Room): https://csusm.zoom.us/j/82055894946
Prerequisite
SE 451.
Course Description
Theory and practice of determining whether a product conforms to its specification and
intended use. Topics include methods of testing, types of testing, verification and validation,
software quality assurance methods, test plans and strategies, unit level and system level
testing, software reliability, peer review methods, security-related quality assurance processes
and techniques, and configuration control responsibilities in quality assurance.
Topics and Tentative Schedule
Testing Fundamentals (2 weeks)
Motivation
Fault, Error, and Failure
Coverage Criteria
Subsumption and Infeasibility
Criteria-Based Test Design (8 weeks)
Graph Coverage
Logic Coverage
Input Space Partitioning
Syntax-Based Testing
Midterm Review and Exam (1 week)
Junit Testing Framework (2 weeks)
Selenium Testing Framework (2 weeks)
Project Final Presentation (1 week)
Textbook
Paul Ammann and Jeff Offutt. 2016. Introduction to Software Testing (2nd ed.). Cambridge
University Press, New York, NY, USA.
Grading
Individual Assignments: 40%
Group Project: 20%
Midterm Exam: 20%
Final Exam: 20%
2
Policy
Late submission is NOT acceptable.
Re-grading must be requested within one week after grades are released.
The University Academic Honesty Policy applies.
Student Learning Outcomes
Students that successfully complete the course will be able to:
1. Identify, analyze, and apply skills and professional standards in software verification and
validation.
a. Know verification and validation terminology and foundations for software (e.g.,
planning the verification and validation effort, documenting verification and
validation strategy, including tests and other artifacts, metrics and
measurement, verification and validation involvement at different points in the
life cycle, etc.)
b. Know reviews and static analysis for software (e.g., peer reviews, static analysis,
etc.)
c. Know testing for software (e.g., coverage analysis and structure-based testing,
black-box functional testing techniques, integration testing, quality analysis,
developing test cases based on use cases and/or user stories, testing based on
operational profiles, system and acceptance testing, testing across quality
attributes, regression testing, testing tools and automation, user interface
testing, usability testing, performance testing, etc.)
d. Know problem analysis and reporting for software (e.g., analyzing failure reports,
debugging and fault isolation techniques, defect analysis, problem tracking, etc.)
2. Identify, analyze, and apply skills and professional standards in software quality.
a. Know software quality concepts and culture (e.g., definitions of quality, society’s
concern for quality, costs and impacts of bad quality, cost of quality model,
quality attributes for software, roles of people, processes, methods, tools, and
technology, etc.)
b. Know process assurance (e.g., the nature of process assurance, quality planning,
process assurance techniques, etc.)
c. Know product assurance (e.g., the nature of product assurance, distinctions
between assurance and verification and validation, quality product models, root
cause analysis and defect prevention, quality product models, root cause
analysis and defect prevention, quality product metrics and measurement,
assessment of product quality attributes, etc.)
3. Identify, analyze, and apply skills and professional standards in security issues.
a. Know developing secure software (e.g., security-related verification and
validation, etc.).
University Writing Requirement
CSUSM has established a 2500-word writing requirement for each course. To meet this
requirement, each student will comment their programs, answer homework questions and
answer exam questions.
3
Students with disabilities who require academic accommodations must be approved for
services by providing appropriate and recent documentation to the Office of Disabled Student
Services (DSS). This office is located in Craven Hall 4300 and can be contacted by phone at (760)
750-4905, TDD (760) 750-4909 or by email at: dss@csusm.edu Students authorized by DSS to
receive accommodations should meet with me during my office hours, or in another private
setting, in order to ensure your confidentiality.